=head1 NAME

of - List open files.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    $of vim
    10059 vim.gnome /home/stilgar/bin/.of.swp

    $of --fields f evolution | grep "\.db$" | sort | uniq
    /home/me/.evolution/mail/imap/my@mail.com/folders.db
    /home/me/.evolution/mail/imap/more@mail.com@provider.net/folders.db
    /home/me/.evolution/mail/local/folders.db
    /home/me/.evolution/mail/vfolder/folders.db
    /home/me/.pki/nssdb/cert9.db
    /home/me/.pki/nssdb/key4.db

    $of --type p --children --show-fd ogmrip
    ...
    2054 ogmrip 19 pipe:[15582]
    2054 ogmrip 20 pipe:[15582]
    2054 ogmrip 23 pipe:[912459]
    2054 ogmrip 25 pipe:[912460]
    16132 mencoder 1 pipe:[912459]
    16132 mencoder 2 pipe:[912460]
    $cat /proc/2054/23
    Pos: 216.6s   5415f (45%) 31.04fps Trem:   3min  45mb  A-V:0.000 [803:0]

    $export OF_RC=$'--unit h --fields pndlhsf 
    --format "%5d %-15.15s %3d [%-3s] %-7s %-7s %s\n"'
    $of gnome-session -c
    ...
    1670 gnome-panel       2 [RW+] 2.0K    2.0K    /home/stilgar/.xsession-e\
    rrors
    1678 nautilus          1 [RW+] 2.0K    2.0K    /home/stilgar/.xsession-e\
    rrors
    1678 nautilus          2 [RW+] 2.0K    2.0K    /home/stilgar/.xsession-e\
    rrors
    ...

    $of -c firefox-bin --deleted-only --fields f --without-proc-tags
    /tmp/FlashXXlQ6no
    $of -c firefox-bin --deleted-only -f hk --unit m -O "Buffered %s Megabytes of %s"
    Buffered 117.4 Megabytes of /proc/4110/fd/64
    $of -c firefox-bin --deleted-only -f k -0 | xargs -0 mplayer
    ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This script lists which file descriptors are opened by running processes and can display information about them.

=head1 SELECTING PROCESSES

=head2 Process Matching

Any number of process names can be provided as arguments. If no process name is specified, B<of> will use all the processes belonging to the current user.

The specified process names are matched against F</proc/pid/cmdline>, F</proc/pid/exe> and F</proc/pid/status>.

At this time B<of> only shows descriptors that are opened by the user calling the command. Future versions will allow users with root privileges to use it on other users.

=head2 Options

=over

=item
B<--children>, B<-c>

Recurse into the selected processes' descendance.

=item
B<--ignore-case>, B<-i>

Ignore case in matching algorithm.

=item
B<--match-start>, B<-s>

Match incomplete process name (ie. C<fire> matches C<firefox>)

=item
B<--smart-match>, B<-m>
      
Match the script file instead of interpreter for known script languages.

=back


=head1 SELECTING DESCRIPTORS

A few options are provided to select which descriptors to display. By default only directories and regular files are be displayed.

=over

=item B<--types>, B<-t> [dfvpsxoDFVPSXO]

Select which descriptors types to display (directories, regular files, devices, pipes, sockets, deleted, other special)

=item B<--include>, B<-n> [dfvpsxo]

Include these descriptor types. See B<--types> for the meaning of the arguments.

=item B<--exclude>, B<-x> [dfvpsxo]

Include or exclude file types. See B<--types> for the meaning of the arguments.

=item B<--include-all>, B<-a>

Display descriptors of any type.

=item B<--deleted-only>

Only display deleted entries. Implies B<--include x>.

=item B<--[no-]include-directories>

=item B<--[no-]include-regular>

=item B<--[no-]include-devices>

=item B<--[no-]include-pipes>

=item B<--[no-]include-sockets>

=item B<--[no-]include-deleted>

=item B<--[no-]include-other>

Select which descriptor types to display.

=back


=head1 OUTPUT FORMAT

=head2 Fields

Fields are displayed in command-line order.

=over

=item B<--[no-]show-pid>

=item B<--[no-]show-process>

=item B<--[no-]show-fd>

=item B<--[no-]show-flags>

=item B<--[no-]show-extra-flags>

=item B<--[no-]show-pos>

=item B<--[no-]show-size>

=item B<--[no-]show-type>

=item B<--[no-]show-link>

Enable/disable fields to display.

=item B<--show-all>

Display all fields except the link in /proc.

=item B<--fields>, B<-f> [pndlxfhsk]

Choose which fields to display (pid, process name, fd, flags, extra flags, filename, seek position, size, link in /proc).

=back


=head2 Formatting

=over

=item B<--unit [bkmh]>

Unit to use for sizes (bytes, kilobytes, megabytes, human)

=item B<--[no-]escape>

Shell escape filenames.

=item B<--[no-]basename>

Display basename instead of full filename.

=item B<--with-proc-tags>
=item B<--without-proc-tags>

Deleted files have I<(deleted)> appended to their names by the F</proc> filesystem. By default this will be displayed as is. Use C<--without-proc-tags> to display the bare filename only. You will not be able to tell the difference between regular and deleted files any longer.

=item B<--format>, B<-o> format_string

sprintf style format string to display files. The "%" placeholders must match the selected fields (`--fields`) in number and in order.

=item B<--formatln>, B<-O> format_string

like --format, but appends a newline.

=item B<--null|0>

End lines with nul character instead of a newline. This is useful in combination with `xargs -0` to safely iterate over filenames that may contain weird characters.

=back

=head1 OTHER INFORMATION

=over

=item B<--help>, B<-h>

Display a useful help message.

=item B<--version>, B<V>

Display the current version and quit.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

    $export OF_RC=--format "%5d %-25s %s" --fields pnf

=head1 BUGS

Hit me!

=head1 IDEAS

=over

=item * custom sort

=item * make output lines unique. useful with -f f -0 to get a nul separated list
   of open files.

=item * --format option is weird, it should not use the specified fields and their
   order but allow a syntax like --format="%{pid}-3d %{process}s, and autoselect
   the fields that are needed.

=item * allow to select processes belong to other user for system maintenance.

=item * display header

=item * display more pertinent info about sockets

=item * better detection of script files

=item * be smarter about the display process name, try

=item * to match the launched command rather than the canonical name.
   ie. gvim instead of vim.gnome

=item * add option to specify which process name matching method(s) are used.

=item * filter: show only files open for reading / writing

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This module by Martijn van der Kwast <martijn@vdkwast.com>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This module is copyright (c) 2011-2013 Martijn van der Kwast <martijn@vdkwast.com>. All rights reserved.

This script is free software; you may redistribute and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
